So back in our theory grid, here we also added the grid areas
the last time we worked on that
and don't forget that earlier at the beginning of this module, I showed that under the layout tab of the
Firefox developer tools, you get that display area names checkbox.
Now if you click it, here you can then also see the areas defined by you.
So this can be really useful since this gives you an overview over which parts of your grid do have
which name, just as a side note.
However in this video here, I also want to dive into something else related to areas and not related
to the areas but to line names again.
Remember that earlier, we set these names here on the rows.
We didn't set names for columns because there, we're using repeat,
now the obvious question is how do you assign a line name here
because this gets repeated? You can't set
column one start, it will get repeated and you don't need four column one start lines, do you?
Well turns out you might need. So we can add a line name here in the repeat argument, in the second argument
just as we add it in other places. We add square brackets and in the square brackets here,
we then assign the line name
we have. Now these are column line names,
so let's maybe name it column start.
I deliberately don't add a number here, so it's not column one start or anything like that because that
wouldn't really be helpful,
it's in the end getting repeated. After this, I'll add column end though.
So now I define column line names and these line names will actually be repeated.
Now we're not using line names anymore,
we're using the area but let's switch back to line names and let's assign our remaining unassigned element,
element 1 to a place in the grid with the help of line names.
So here, I will add my grid column property to use that shorthand
and now how could I tell this that I want to position it let's say in this empty box here, in this empty
cell?
It would start at column line two and end at column line three
but we assigned a name but the name is column start all the time.
Well if you repeat column names and you have the same name more than once, you can use column-start
here and then add the number of occurrence you want to start.
So the first line here will actually be column start one,
the second one is column start two, you don't add this as part of the name but you simply add two as
an extra value after the name, then your forward slash and then
the point where you want to end, so column end and here also, the second occurrence because the first
column end will be line number
two here, this vertical line,
the second column
end is this one, With that if we save that and reload,
this is now placed exactly where we want to place it. So you can use line names together with repeat,
you just need to specify the number of occurrence so to say, so which one of the automatically generated
lines do you want to target?
So this is one very nice thing,
one other thing you might have noticed is that I always used -start and -end at the name.
Now it makes sense to use this because it clearly marks what the line is or where it is positioned
but it also yields one other benefit, we get automatically generated template areas
if we follow the naming patterns of naming our lines with -start or -end, let me show you what
I mean.
In our container, we got this first row which has a height of 5rem,
let's maybe rename it from row one start to hd-start, hd for header,
I'm not using header because I defined it here and I want to show you that we create a new area here
automatically. I'll name this then hd-end, so after the value for the first row and now let's also work
our template columns. Now instead of the repeat function would be the wrong place because the pattern
would then be repeated
and I want to enclose all column with a start and end line name
but I can simply add it in front and after repeat.
So in square brackets, I can add hd-start here too and after the repeat function at the very end of
this declaration
therefore, I will also add square brackets and add hd-end. What this will give us is a named line or two
named lines, one in front of the whole column set here and one after all the columns,
it still also creates these line names in between
but we also get these outside of the repeat function and we get the same line names for the first row,
so for the first two row lines in the end, hd-start for the first row line, hd-end for the second and it's
no problem that some lines have duplicate or multiple names I should say.
So now, we got hd-start and hd-end and we clearly mark or enclose an area in the grid with that. We
can now use this as an automatically generated area name, HD.
So if we follow the pattern of having -start or -end after the name, then this name in front
of -start and -end will become an automatically generated grid area enclosing whatever you
put between these lines.
So now we can use HD as a name for our element three.
Right now, we use header, that's the area we defined on our own,
if I now change this to HD and save this and keep in mind, HD is not defined by us here,
if we go back and reload, we have the same result as before because we still occupy the full first row
simply due to our set up here, simply because we use this pattern.
If I change one name, for example hd-start to hd-sart, this is still a valid line name,
we can name it like this but if I reload, our layout breaks because now we're referencing an area, HD
which does not exist because it's not automatically generated because we have to follow that naming
pattern of -start and -end
at the end.
So this is also useful to know.
I'd argue that this approach of manually laying out the grid is easier to understand for your fellow developers
but it is good to know that you have the possibility of automatically inferring the grid area names
or using these autogenerated grid areas.